Minikube is really a great tool
to install and use kubernetes,
but sometimes it doesn't spin up,
sometimes it doesn't work with your configuration,
with your desktop, so there is an alternative.
We can download docker and the newest versions of docker
allow you to install kubernetes within the client.
So that makes it a lot easier to use kubernetes
if you're already using the docker client
or if minikube doesn't work for you.
So in this demo I will show you how this works.
So if you just type in docker client windows edge in Google
then you will get on this page.
Store.docker.com/editions/community,
it's a community edition, docker-ce,
stands for community edition, desktop-windows.
And here on this page you can download the Stable version
or the Edge version.
Because kubernetes within a docker client is pretty new
you need the Edge version.
At some point they will include it in the Stable version,
but now you need Edge version.
So you need to download Edge version for Windows
or you can download the Edge version for Mac.
So I downloaded the Edge version for Mac.
It's an installer and it will install docker
in your tray in Mac,
but I suppose in Windows it's exactly the same.
And once it started, it starts by default when you start it,
then you can go to Preferences,
and when you open your Preferences
a window like this will open
and you should have an icon here kubernetes.
If you don't have this then you're probably
on the Stable version and you
should download the Edge version.
To enable kubernetes you just click on this.
You click on kubernetes and you press apply.
Kubernetes is now starting.
This can take a few minutes.
So my kubernetes cluster is now running.
This is the Mac OS terminal that I launched.
If you are on Windows you can just launch
the command cmd or a powershell to get a terminal
and then you will also be able to use the docker
and kubectl commands.
So I can now use a terminal and do kubectl get nodes.
And I get my docker-for-desktop.
If you already tried to use minikube earlier before that
you might have to change your context.
So kubectl config get-context.
We'll show you the context that you have.
And now I only have one cluster, one context,
but if you're reusing minikube it's possible
that there's also a minikube context here,
and then you just have to use kubectl config use-context
and then the name of the context.
It will switch you to that cluster.
We switch now but I was already on this context.
So this is only if you have multiple context.
If you use minikube earlier
or you already have the cluster installed earlier.
Now I can start using it, kubectl get nodes.
I have one node.
Let's try to run a pod.
I will run kubectle run hello-kubernetes,
and I'm going to use echoserver port 8080.
Deployment hello-kubernetes created.
Kubectl expose deployment hello-kubernetes type NodePort.
I'm creating a service so they can
access this hello-kubernetes,
so this is just a test.
I will explain you in the coming lectures
what this all means,
just to see whether the cluster is working.
I should now be able to connect to this service,
get service hello-kubernetes.
And I should now be able to go to my browser
on localhost and this port I should be able to connect.
Localhost and this port and this just gives me a response.
So this is my request, request_uri localhost 8080,
that's what my pod is running on.
So if you get this then your kubernetes install
is properly working and you just created
your first application,
your first pod on kubernetes.
So the next lectures I will go in a bit more detail
what all these things mean.
This is definitely a good alternative to minikube
if you don't get minikube running or you just want to use
only docker client with kubernetes
and then you only have to install one package.